Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
Bob said it really well
at this early morning.
Everybody's taking really useful polls,
so I will have to do the same.
Who would not be up at this very hour
if it wasn't for this presentation?
Thank you.
I hope you have muffins, orange juice,
and all the other goodies that
they're handing out for free,
so at least it's free food.
I'm Stan Jiurman, and I will be joined in
a minute by Tom Naughton,
who will be giving the
demos for this presentation.
What's in this beautiful talk?
Because it's so early,
we tried to put many demos in there
so that you don't quite fall asleep.
We'll be discussing the new
features in WebObjects 5 and
the WebObjects tool integration.
We've had presentations on
WebObjects Builder before.
We had other sessions
talking about EOModeler,
so we'll not address those
in too much of a depth.
We will be talking about the
project builder assistants.
At this point,
you're probably realizing this
session should have been earlier.
And I don't mean like at 7 o'clock.
I mean Tuesday, because you've seen all
those assistants since,
but we will talk more about them.
We'll be discussing
the project structure,
which has changed quite
dramatically since WebObjects 4.5,
or even the prior versions.
We'll be talking about
rapid turnaround mode.
That's the nifty thing that you
don't have to compile a product,
and it still works.
We'll explain to you how it works,
or why it works,
and why it sometimes doesn't work.
We'll be discussing the CVS integration
on examples of WebObjects.
We'll be talking about the
installation of a built product.
And we'll be discussing,
or just briefly touching,
custom palettes in WebObjects Builder.
Project builder assistants.
Now you've all seen them.
You've seen probably all of them.
And you've seen probably only one kind,
the project assistants.
The project assistants are those
that help you set up a new project.
File assistants are assistants that
help you with an existing project
to add more and more stuff to them.
As I said, project assistants help
with new project creation.
They build a fully functional,
compilable application
skeletons for you from scratch.
And they add resources based
on what frameworks you choose,
what model files you choose, et cetera.
What's new in web objects 5?
For those of you who have been
using web objects for a while,
now you can add multiple EO model
files to a project right away,
which is really helpful because
then the formal wizards,
now assistants,
go with you through the whole
process of reverse engineering.
And you can get consistency errors if
you have only one model in the project.
You can also add frameworks,
which again allows you to
structure your product nicely
and have EO models in there.
And of course, the new features of EO,
EOF Cocoa applications and
all the new Java stuff.
The file assistants,
once you have a functional product,
project, excuse me,
then those assistants are used to
add new things to your project.
Java classes, nice templates with names
and everything filled in,
web components,
they get already a little bit trickier,
and Java client MIPS.
That's the trickiest part.
So that's done all for you,
and Tom now will come on stage and will
show you something about the assistants.
Okay, so as Stan mentioned,
you've probably all seen
the assistants by now,
but let's just consider
this a comprehensive review.
So this is, of course,
the assistant panel in Project Builder.
The WebObjects assistants
are all at the bottom.
I'd just like to go through and explain
what each of these is in case we
haven't covered them all consistently.
The first is the Cocoa EOF application.
This is the replacement for
using EOF in Cocoa applications.
It basically just copies the
standard Java Cocoa project template,
adds our frameworks,
and guides you through creating a nib,
much like a direct Java client,
as you've seen.
The next two, Java client,
direct to Java client, and direct to web,
basically just ask you to choose a model.
Direct to web asks you to choose
an appearance for the application.
Then it just builds and
runs the application,
and you customize all
the features at runtime.
Display group application
I'm going to use in a minute.
You've seen it many times.
It creates a component with a
preconfigured display group,
which is a kind of a Swiss army
knife controller object that
manages a set of EOs for display.
The next two are basically just
template copying assistants.
They just copy the standard
basic WebObjects application and
WebObjects framework projects,
and just customize them
with the name that you add.
So I'm going to go through and
do the display group application,
because I basically need an application
to do the rest of the demos with.
So we give it a name.
And this panel is actually one of
the new features in WebObjects 5.
Previous versions of the wizard
would just let you choose one model,
and that made it difficult if you
had frameworks containing models,
or if you had multiple models
with cross-model relationships.
So this actually makes it a lot easier
to do things that you couldn't do before.
I'm going to add a
business logic framework.
And you can see in the next panel that
that framework contains two models.
I could also add additional models.
And as long as they don't
have conflicting entity names,
I could use that entire model
group for the rest of the wizard.
Next we choose the main
entity for the main component.
I'm always going to go with movie.
There are various options
for the layout that you want.
For example,
you can just have a big list of
all the attributes that you choose,
or you can have a list of EOs represented
by the attribute that you choose,
and then clicking on it will display
more detail below that you can
edit and use to create new EOs.
I'm just going to go with the list
of EOs and what I just explained.
Anyway, okay, so we need some attributes,
and I'm just going to show off
that you can select multiple
attributes and add them all at once.
I think I want to do that.
And then I need to choose
an attribute to use for the
hyperlink in the list of the EOs.
And I just click on Finish.
Okay, so basically you've seen this type
of project a number of times before.
It's created this component with
a pre-configured display group.
Since this is the assistant demo,
I'd also like to show you
some of the file assistants,
which I don't think people have
been showing in other demos.
So again, the WebObjects assistants are
down at the bottom of the screen.
You'll notice that there's a
Java class assistant here and
another one up here under Cocoa.
And the basic difference is the template
has different import statements.
So if you want to import
the Cocoa frameworks,
you would choose this one.
If you want to import the
WebObjects frameworks,
you would use this one.
We're just going to
create a new component.
Oh, and actually this reminds me.
One important thing when you use
the Project Builder assistance is
you have to choose the group that
you want to add the component to,
or it'll just add it
wherever the selection is.
So we're going to just create a
new plain old vanilla component.
We get a list of the targets.
Many of the assistants don't
give you a list of targets.
They just know which target things
go in and choose it for you.
But since this is a built-in project
builder template copying wizard,
we have to choose the target.
We're going to cover
targets a little bit later.
But the important thing here is
that you pretty much never want
to add things to the main target.
And you want to add all
of your components to the
application server target.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
And we have this configured
to open the Java file.
You'll see that it's added
that with the other components.
So the other way to create new
components is to use the builder.
And when you save the component,
if you save it in the project directory,
which it'll try to do by default,
It'll ask if you want to add
the component to the project.
Say yes, it asks if you want to
create the Java file.
You pretty much always do.
And that'll also just stick the
new component into the project.
So you can either use WAB or
use one of the wizards.
I'm just going to build this so
that we can do the next demo.
But there's really no need to run it.
You've seen it many times.
So, Stan?
All right.
Now just sit here.
Stay with us.
All right.
Don't run away.
So back to the slides, if we can go.
Yes.
Tom pointed out initially in the
assistants the Cocoa EOF application.
I'll repeat after me.
That's in Java.
Let's go into the next topic,
the project structure.
We saw Tom talk about targets, buckets,
and we will also touch a
little bit of mystery files,
which was selected as the last
file on the previous demo screen.
Now, what is a target?
Target is something new for at least
the legacy WebObjects developers.
It's a notion that comes
over from old Mac OS.
It allows you for a file to
be part of multiple different
You can have a file being-- OK,
it's complicated, you see?
I mean, I work with it,
and I don't know how to explain it.
A file can be part of multiple targets,
and a target describes where that file,
when it's once built or copied
in the finished product,
where it will be.
So in a typical deployment
scenario for WebObjects,
we have an application server.
Then somewhere we have a web server.
Sometimes it's the same machine,
but typically it's not.
There's a firewall.
They forgot the fire.
The servers connect through the
firewall to all the clients.
So we see that in the typical
scenario we have the app server
and the web server apart,
and usually it's maybe
even more computers.
The web server target,
which is part of any WebObjects project,
you put static stuff there,
stuff that just doesn't change.
Things that the web server
has to fetch from disk,
and that's it.
Static images, static HTML,
client-side Java classes because
they just get downloaded to
the client over the network.
Java client Nib files, same thing.
And anything that gets
access through normal URLs.
Now here,
because this is so late in the week,
you already know what normal URLs are.
It's this non-so-fancy or
not-so-ugly looking thing.
Then, to complement that,
we have the application server target.
This one is used for
all the dynamic content,
server-side Java classes, web components,
that would be what Tom was
creating with Objects Builder,
EO models.
These are also dynamic.
They're considered dynamic, and also,
they're used by the application
and by the web server.
And images generated on the fly.
An example of an image
generated on the fly is,
you have already, hopefully,
visited the Apple Eye tools with
the eye cards and sent nice,
cute little postcards
to your mom and dad.
This is an example of a
picture generated on the fly.
Warning.
If you don't know what you're doing,
don't touch them.
Don't mess with them.
Don't rename them.
The targets, they are--
They depend on their names
and don't modify them.
Tom will show later when he's
giving the demo about targets
what you really shouldn't touch.
There's a lot of settings.
And if you really don't
know what you're doing,
just please stay away.
Buckets?
What buckets?
In previous versions of WebObjects,
we had this old project builder,
now known as Project Builder Woe,
except on Windows, where it's now known
as the Project Builder.
[Transcript missing]
Ah, those buckets.
"Mystery files." Some of
you may be wondering,
"What are some of those files that
are there?" Let's delete them.
They just take space and
nobody really uses them.
It doesn't complain when they're gone.
Two mystery files.
The woohoo file.
Woohoo.
Display Group Definitions.
You've probably heard
what a display group is.
It does a lot of nifty stuff for you,
connects things for display, etc.
That is defined in the Woo file.
You delete that file, oops, not good.
Component encoding,
even if you don't use display groups,
many, especially advanced users, I guess,
are not using the display group so much.
But you might be interested
in your data coming into the
browser with the proper encoding.
You're talking to a Japanese client,
it comes in Latin characters,
not so good.
So this is all stored in the component
encoding section of the Woo file.
The second mystery file,
we got new icons, by the way,
is the "A" file.
This API file is in XML format,
following the new great
standards that we are following.
It's used during development only.
It tells WebObjects Builder what are
legal and what are illegal bindings.
So it won't allow you to make a
connection that requires an array
to something that's a flat thing,
etc.
And if you delete that, oh well,
it will live.
It's used during development only,
and in your build project,
you don't have to have it there.
Now, as I promised in another demo,
Tom will talk about targets.
Okay, so first I wanted to open up some
of these groups so that you can see
the default project organization.
And again,
these groups are basically just a
figment of project builders' imagination.
It doesn't correspond
to the layout on disk.
It's just a convenient mechanism
for you to organize your project.
One catch, though, is that our wizards,
our assistants,
have preferred groups that
they like to put things in.
So that, to make it easy,
when you create a new component,
you know, "Gee, where did it put it in
my project?" You know,
it put it in Web Components.
Let's see, so we have classes go up here.
We have the group with
the Web Components.
Each component is in its own group.
If you don't like that,
you can just completely rearrange that.
You can put them all in one group or
each file in another group if you want.
Resources, let's see.
Whoops.
That's annoying.
- Annoying.
Basically,
you would put your application resources,
the ones that go on the
application server side,
generally go in there.
The web server resources
are GIFs and things,
as Stan mentioned,
that need to be copied to the web server.
Interfaces is the location
where it would put nib files for
Java Client or Cocoa EOF Client.
Frameworks bucket, of course,
contains frameworks.
One interesting bucket is
the built product bucket.
It's actually a convenient way
for you to go and look at the
structure of the bundle that
was built for your application.
For example,
if you have a burning desire to
see the Windows launch script,
you can just drill right down
into it without having to
use the finder or terminal.
Don't show it to people yet.
That's at the very end,
just before they walk out.
Don't show it yet.
Yeah, let's just start showing that.
This is where it appears in the project,
but we're not going to discuss
the project structure until later.
Okay.
As was mentioned by Stan.
Let's see.
I also wanted to show you the targets.
There are two different
ways of looking at targets.
To me,
the most convenient one is in this view.
There's a pop-up that
shows all the targets.
When you choose a target,
it puts a little donut next to
the file that is in that target.
If you want to add a file to a target,
you just turn on the donut.
To remove it, you turn it off.
You can see here that all the classes,
all the components, all the frameworks,
and even the web server resources will
be in the application server target.
Then looking at the web server,
you'll see that it's basically
just the web server resources,
the GIFs, and some frameworks.
So basically,
these GIFs will be copied both to your
web server and to the application server.
You probably won't always need to have
the GIFs in the application server side,
but if you dynamically create images,
it's convenient to have a copy of them
there so that you can access them.
That's sort of up to you.
The frameworks are
included in both targets.
You can use the targets so that
your Java classes can have access
to any of these frameworks.
I think that basically covers
targets and project structure.
Oh yeah, I'm still here.
I was just looking.
Come on, it's too early.
Oh wait, no, I'm sorry.
There's another way to...
He is also one of those people
who should have raised the hand
of not even being up at this time.
I looked at my script and noticed that
there's another way to look at targets.
You can click on the Targets tab,
and it lists the three targets.
And what's important to note here
is that the application and web
server target are both sub-targets
of the main project target.
And so the whole reason the
main target exists is just to
build the other two targets.
You never put anything in there.
It's just sort of a convenience
so that you wouldn't have to build
the two targets independently.
Now, show also why people
shouldn't touch them.
Show the scary stuff now.
The scary stuff, yes.
So that they know the stop sign.
Yes.
When you click on these targets,
you get another view of the target that
shows you all the files that's in them.
You could drag and drop files from
the finder into these buckets as
another way of adding files to targets.
And down here, there are--
There are scripts and various
settings that you probably
wouldn't want to mess with,
such as...
These are some build
settings for the targets.
If you really know what you're doing,
you might want to mess with some of
the flags sent to the Java compiler,
but chances are you wouldn't want
to mess with most of these things.
So basically,
targets are there for you to add
and remove resources and files to,
but unless you really
know what you're doing,
you should probably just leave them
alone and not create your own targets
and certainly not rename them.
I'm going to finish this time.
Sounds lovely.
And when we go back to the slides,
I'll rewound a few.
That's why I was not paying attention.
For recap,
two targets-- the web server target,
static stuff.
One of the examples Tom has
mentioned that you can put a
file into more than one bucket,
excuse me, target.
Static image might be an example or an
image in general for the static version
that just gets downloaded to your client.
And maybe your application will
want to do something with it,
be creative with it.
Again, my favorite example, those iCards.
When you first come to the
selection of I want this picture,
I want that picture, I want that picture,
it's a static image.
It's just showing them to you.
It's not doing anything with them.
However, later,
when you actually start typing text and
it shows you a preview of that slide,
that card, it became a dynamic image.
So it has to be on the
application server as well.
There is no need to put a Neo model
to both targets because WebServer
won't know what to do with it.
But some resources,
also some Java classes that might
be used to put them into both.
A Java class might have some
business logic that's used
by the application server,
but it's also used by the Java client,
and everything for the Java client
has to be in the WebServer resource.
And again, as Tom said,
you saw that really,
really crafty page with 10,000 settings,
which very few people understand.
Don't mess with it.
And now beautiful animations.
I mean,
could not have done it any better.
And let's go to the
rapid turnaround mode.
The rapid turnaround
mode we all have seen,
and we love it so much.
How does it work?
Why does it work?
Why does it sometimes not work?
First, what does it do for you?
It improves the development time.
You don't have to go through
the whole build cycle.
Usually, you change a resource,
you change something fancy,
you just press refresh on the page,
it looks different.
So, that's nice.
No need to perform a full split-install.
Remember the beautiful firewall picture?
App server, web server, two computers,
nasty.
You really don't want to do it each
time when you build your project.
This one allows you to not
even rebuild the project,
forget about the split-install.
Split-install joys to be discussed later.
Allows tweaking of HTML files and images.
You don't even have to have a web server.
Everything is done on disk.
I like traffic signs,
not necessarily those,
but Project Builder needs to be running
while you are in rapid turnaround mode.
So you can't, for instance,
just have WebObjects Builder running,
tweak some components, press refresh,
and expect something to happen.
That's not going to happen.
That's because WebObjects Framework
and the WebObjects Builder are
talking in the background with
Project Builder to find the resources.
There is this really fancy thing,
thank you Tom, the abstraction layer that
abstracts communication
between all our tools,
the WebObjects tools,
and the proper OS X development tools.
As I said, it used to be that through
this whole bucket thing,
everything had to live in one directory.
And so we could find all the
resources where we wanted them,
because they were in
this little directory.
Now you can have resources
spread out on the network,
anywhere in the file system.
So we have to find them.
Only Project Builder knows
where all the resources are,
because it's running.
It knows it has the project loaded,
so when we ask it, "Hey,
where's the component blah?" It tells us,
"Right here." And we can find it.
So it's really important
that you have this
That you remember to have
Project Builder running because
otherwise rapid turnaround will not work.
And back to our chief demo person.
Okay,
so now I'm going to run this application,
which I see has built successfully.
Actually, did I run it yet?
Okay, when I build, you have to make sure
you're on the main target.
Otherwise,
your execution button won't highlight.
Actually, as Stan said,
there are two pieces to rapid turnaround.
One is your WebObjects application
talks to Project Builder.
The other is WAB talks
to Project Builder.
That's actually two different code paths,
and there are some subtle cases where
they behave slightly differently.
One example would be if you edit an
EO model in EO Modeler and save it,
WAB will notice the changes and they'll
show up in your variables browser.
But the running application
won't refresh the EO model,
so you have to relaunch.
But not rebuild.
Yeah, you don't have to
rebuild your application,
but you do have to relaunch it.
And sort of the way it works
internally is the WebObjects framework
basically treats Project Builder
as your application bundle.
It doesn't even look in the build bundle.
It just talks to Project Builder
whenever it's looking for a resource.
So basically if you add a resource,
it'll always find it
without the need to rebuild.
So, okay, we've run the application.
And we've got this component.
- What?
Let's see.
And the way it's working is it's
actually pointing to the very same file
that you're editing in the builder.
So if you change your component--
If I refresh in the browser, not home,
refresh, it'll update right away.
And also, if you drag in a GIF-- and
I believe I have some graphics
on this machine somewhere.
will drag in a moose to
beautify our application.
Let's see if I can have Project Builder
showing the background so that you can
watch it put the GIF where it goes.
So, OK, finder.
We asked for a high
resolution but didn't get it.
No.
Let's see.
This window's kind of in the way.
There we go.
Now we can see-- no,
we still can't see the project.
Here's the project,
here are the resources,
we're going to drag in the moose.
"It offers to add it to the application,
and you can see it's
stuffed in the bucket.
It's updated in WAB.
We now have...is that a moose?
Yeah, there's a moose in there." "I
know that guy." "It's behind
the tree." "It's hiding.
I mean, you know,
moose are shy by nature."
"We save the component.
Switch back to Internet Explorer.
Hit refresh."
[Transcript missing]
Let's go back to the lovely slides.
So much for rapid turnaround.
CVS integration in Project Builder.
I don't know if you've been to
the Project Builder sessions.
We scheduled the WebObjects
track so that you can always go
to the Project Builder sessions.
There was always nice gaps.
They could have been used
for lunch and other breaks,
but Project Builder was the thought.
This was discussed there.
What is CVS?
We'll show you in our session
briefly how it really works
well with WebObjects as well.
What can it do for you
on OS X and what is it?
What is CVS?
Concurrent versioning system.
It's open source,
which is great these days.
It's not owned by a single gigantic
company who wants to own everything.
It comes pre-installed with
the developer version of OS X.
So we kind of know it's there.
We can rely on its presence
and on its feature set.
It's cross-platform,
so even if you're developing
on the platform that's owned
by one big corporation,
you still can use CVS,
and we do support that.
It's command line only.
Ouch.
Don't say that in the
Macintosh community.
It's very powerful, but also very,
very... CVS tends to get crafty.
I mean, I read the main pages more
often than I would like to,
but we use it internally,
so it's got to be good, and at least the
integration is really good,
because all the tools are
built to work with CVS.
How does Project Builder
help you with CVS?
There is this SCM menu, which stands for
Source Management Control.
It's something Source Control.
It shows you where you
added and deleted files.
That's one of the tricky things.
You are on command line, you add a file,
you edit to the make file,
or what have you,
and you build the project.
It's just great.
You do a CVS commit.
Next day you check it out,
and it's not working because
you forgot to add it.
Project Builder does that for you.
It supports the deletion of simple files,
as well as wrappers.
You know, file wrappers,
those really nice things
that are a .woe or .eomodeld.
They show up like a little file,
but if you don't know about it,
you add it, and nothing got added because
it's actually a directory.
So it works recursively.
way.
And it allows remote, it supports remote
CVS servers with security.
So that's an add-on bonus.
You don't have to have your
CVS repository somewhere on
the file system on the network,
excuse me,
and have everybody see it or not.
It supports authentication.
Tom,
you should have been in the first slide,
like Naim.
You're doing most of the work here.
Show us.
Okay, so Project Builder has all
kinds of support for viewing
differences in your CVS repository,
but they haven't added something to
allow you to check out a project,
so you still have to do
that on the command line.
So CVS checkout, CO for short.
And we've created a
CVS repository on this machine.
So that's checked out
the Think Movies project.
We can open that with
the command line too,
since we're already here.
Uh-oh.
That terminal does strange things
when you have a large font sometimes.
OK, so now we're going to modify
one of these components and show
you the interactions with CVS.
So we'll go ahead and open that in WAB.
And let's say we wanted to add a key.
[Transcript missing]
And actually,
you have to save the file before
it actually checks with CVS.
And you can see it's put a
little M over here to show us
that we've modified that file.
So as you go on working,
you'll notice M's appearing next
to files that you've modified.
You can quickly look and
see which ones have changed.
Then after you've edited it for a while,
you'd probably want to go and
see how it compares to the file
that you originally started with.
So you can go up here
to the SCM menu and say,
Compare with Base.
And that opens both the original file
and the modified file in File Merge.
So that makes it very easy to go
through and review your diffs,
which is something that we do
before we check in our code.
So Tom, I can do that in command line.
My big problem with
CVS is renaming files.
How many of you have tried and
failed to rename a file in CVS?
Directories, all this good stuff,
you see?
But, Tom, do you have an answer for that?
We sure do, Stan.
That's the right answer.
Okay.
Yeah, in general,
to rename a file in CVS,
you have to remove the
file and then add it.
And of course, you can't remove the file
unless you delete it,
so you have to...
Delete it, rename it, add it,
and remove it to just rename the file.
In the right order, of course.
But in Project Builder,
you can just do a Get Info on the file.
And you'll notice that it has-- this is
a list of all the CVS commit logs with
useful information about all the changes
that the engineers made on this project.
And to change the name,
you just type in a new name.
warns me that I'm changing the name.
And actually, over here,
you'll notice that it's marked
the old file for removal,
and it's created a new file
that it's marked for addition.
Which is a big improvement
over what we did before,
which would look something like this.
Before we check in,
we want to review our diffs.
"This basically shows you stuff like
this." "If I'm in the right direction.
But anyway, that was the old way.
Now there's the new way."
"So when we're all done,
we want to check in our project."
"You can either select an individual
file and go over to 'Commit Changes'"
"or you can choose the root of the
project and commit all the changes."
What you can also do, actually,
is you can select a subgroup.
Subgroup, subgroup,
and it will commit all
the changes in that group.
When you're renaming a file,
you have to select both files,
or you just have to select
the supergroup of that,
because otherwise it will
check in the new file,
but it will not remove the old one,
so your rename process will be,
just as usual, incomplete.
Okay, so you're prompted for your helpful
and informative commit message.
Tom is famous for his really
descriptive comments in CVS.
Yes, it's important.
All of the Ms, Rs, and As have gone away,
and it seems to have left an M up
here for an inexplicable reason.
So you just put a comment in that file.
Can I get at it in some way to
see later what you actually did?
Actually,
I believe I demonstrated that earlier,
Stan.
You can bring up the information panel.
I mean, you have to check on him
from time to time because you
never know what he's doing.
And in the information panel,
it gives you a list of all the helpful
and informative commit messages.
Well, thank you.
Now I know how to keep an eye on you.
That's how that works.
All right.
So far so good.
Now let's get to the really nasty stuff.
It's not that nasty,
it's just demo is not so pretty.
Installation of WebObjects applications.
We will now discuss build styles,
split installs,
and somewhat the content of a
finished build product project.
Build Styles.
We have touched the targets.
That's only half of the whole
issue in Project Builder.
We also have different build styles.
Build styles define different
compiler settings in general
during different kinds of build.
It's used by WebObjects to
These describe different parts,
where it should go, web server,
app server, together with the targets.
There's three build styles.
There's the one for the development,
that's the one that you're using
when you're using the turnaround,
when you're just debugging your
app and still working on it.
And there's the deployment one,
that you would use to actually
finally deploy the application.
And there's the third, the web server,
which is kind of confusing.
It's used to build the
product for the web server.
I didn't make this table,
but it sure looks nice.
Things to install.
There is many different kinds of
resources that are part of a project.
There is the app server resources,
components, EU models, et cetera.
That's the left column.
Then we have the three columns
for the three different targets.
During develop-- build style, excuse me.
During development,
when we're using rapid turnaround,
everything gets built
into the builds directory.
You're building, you're compiling.
You can specify in project builder
where all your build intermediate
products will be placed,
usually in a local directory so
the file system isn't so busy.
But when we actually go to
develop and deploy-- good God.
When we go to deploy an application,
we want to have the finished
product built somewhere else.
In the application server
installation directory,
that's where the application
eventually will live.
That's so good, so far so good,
but the web server resources,
they're on a different server.
Remember that slide where the web
server was kind of behind a firewall
and the app server was behind a
firewall and they were not really
the same computer necessarily?
If that's the case,
you have to invoke the web server
build style as well so that the
web server resources actually get
copied onto the web server itself.
So that's the one big difference.
During development, remember,
use the development build style.
Everything will be just ducky.
When you're ready to deploy,
you have to invoke both the
deployment and the web server
build style to get it done.
The second somewhat not
quite optimal thing yet,
in Project Builder, you cannot invoke the
install step from the IDE.
You have to do it in terminal.
So you have to open terminal and type
in pbxbuild install -buildstyle and
then one of the two build styles,
either deployment or web server,
and you have to do both.
And then destrude="slash."
Usually you don't want the files,
the build target to live in temp,
which is where the finished
product will be placed,
because you reboot the machine
and you know where temp went.
So you want to have it live in slash
so that everything gets properly
expanded and is really persistent.
However, you might want to omit the
destrude="slash" in case that your actual
server is not your development machine,
which oftentimes is the case.
So you can leave it there.
Everything will be
nicely installed in temp,
and then you can use the tar program
of your choice to just tar the
whole thing up and move it to your,
what do I know, Solari server.
Split installs, once again,
require both the deployment and web
server build style to be invoked so that
the files get in the proper directories.
If you aren't doing a split install,
if you have one machine that
does everything for you,
you don't have to do that.
The deployment is sufficient.
Okay, now we build it.
Now, what's in there?
WebObjects 5, as its predecessors,
but WebObjects 5 more so than before,
is cross-platform because it's Java,
which brings some really
nice problems with it.
The launch scripts.
You've been here all week now,
and you see that red thing scroll
by in Project Builder each time when
somebody launches an application.
It's no longer just a single
word to launch an app.
You actually need more to be done because
you need to tell the Java VM things,
etc.
So, in the OS X and UNIX,
for the OS X and UNIX case,
there is the launch scripts.
They live in the main wrapper and
then also in contents/macos app name.
That's a little script.
It's the same script for
both UNIX and Mac OS X,
probably because Mac OS X is UNIX.
. for
Windows deployment.
There is the Windows deployment script,
which also lives in the main wrapper,
and it's called appname.cmd.
And it also lives in the
proper contents directory.
Those two copies are identical,
but they're used to be used on Windows.
Then there is the classpath file.
That one is used for all the
information for the Java VM,
you know,
where to find the other classes,
where to find the frameworks.
When you use Project Builder,
this is all created
for you automatically.
You don't have to worry about anything.
And those classpath files
are automatically passed as
arguments by the launch scripts.
But just in case you
want to mess with it,
that's where they are.
They are in the content/
and individual directories,
depending on platform.
And here we see there is one for Mac OS,
there is one for UNIX,
and there is one for Windows,
because your Solaris machine has
most likely somewhat different
Java VM or different libraries
than your Mac OS X machine.
Then for Java Client,
we've had many nice and powerful
demos of the Java Client,
direct-to-Java Client technologies.
It's all really nice and good.
When you don't know how
to launch the application,
it's a problem.
Many people don't know there's
actually a script to do that.
It's in the main app wrapper in contents,
and there is the app name.
[Transcript missing]
And then there's some other
stuff in the app wrapper,
the .woa.
There is all kinds of resources.
Again,
we have the application server resources,
and we have the web server resources.
So there's two directories
to distinguish those.
On an application server,
when you have a split install
where there's an app server
and there's a web server,
those directories will have
very different contents.
If it's one and the same machine,
it's going to be one and the same.
Did you have enough of this?
All right.
The last part of today's presentation
will be the custom WAP palettes.
And the good news is-- this is
the only slide for that topic.
It's the good news for me,
because then I can retire.
What are WAP palettes?
This is one of those other new features
in WebObjects Builder for WebObjects 5.
You can customize palettes in WAP.
It's very easy now.
It's just drag and
drop like it should be.
And you can use it to store components,
reusable components.
So for instance, if you are a developer,
a freelance person,
and you want to reuse your components
for many different clients,
you just create a palette and
drags-- drop stuff from it.
If you're a company who wants
to share one of the same look
and feel of components across
many different products,
you do the same.
You create a new palette,
and then you can use the same components
over and over in all of your apps
to assure the same look and feel.
So for the last time, Tom, show us.
So here we are at the last demo.
[Transcript missing]
That's the whole wizardry behind it.
That's why it's now called assistants.
Yes, that's why.
Okay,
so we're going to create a new palette.
And actually, a lot of this code has been
reworked for this release.
You can drag and drop.
And it actually saves a little image
of the HTML that you've dragged.
And you can resize that
to your heart's content.
At this point,
I think that the feature request would
be to make it proportional resizing.
It kind of looks...
Proportional... Let's see,
the shift key?
No.
Yes, that's... But then again,
you should know what you dragged
there in the first place,
so...
Let's see.
Okay,
so now I wanted to show you a custom
element that we've added that we're
going to drag into our application.
So we'll put it somewhere
under the moose.
Get rid of the moose.
It's shedding.
You don't like the moose?
Yeah, well... Do you want to
put it on the palette?
No.
We'll do that later.
We could put the moose on the palette,
should we choose.
Okay, so we're dragging in
a custom search panel,
and it's going to require
its own framework,
which has some of the
GIF resources that it requires.
So we drag that in, and we...
Wire it up to the display group after
moving everything out of the way.
Okay, so let's see.
So it's Play Group.
We want to search on movie title,
so we bind that to the search field.
And when we click search,
we want it to requalify the data source.
Action.
This is the riskiest
part of all the demos.
Relaunch the application.
I forgot one step,
but that's okay because I can fix it
using the power of rapid turnaround.
I was supposed to paste all
of this stuff into here.
There we go.
So we've added a search panel and an
Aqua look and feel to our component,
all by just dragging in a--
I don't know if you can call it.
concludes the palette demo.
Doesn't it?
Tom,
you did really well in all four demos,
even though you wouldn't
be up even at this time.
No.
Well, this kind of brings us to an end.
I think the whole presentation
is like five minutes too short,
because I guess I forgot
half of the stuff.
To summarize, in short,
Project Builder is the core
of WebObjects 5 development.
Pretty much everything
revolves around it.
It's in constant communication with
all of other WebObjects-specific tools.
You have to use different build targets
for different parts of your project,
for different files.
As I said, images are the most likely
candidate to be one or the other,
sometimes even both.
Otherwise, it's more clear-cut.
Components are always app server.
Static stuff is pretty
much always web server.
And different build styles to
finally deploy your project.
It's in the last part when
you're really done with it,
when you want to go to final testing,
you have to invoke those build styles on
the command line because currently there
is no support for that from the IDE.
And also you have to explicitly name
both build styles "deployment" and "web
server." We are aware that that probably
could be optimized in the next release.
At this point, I would like to invite you
to the WebObjects lab that
closes in a few hours.
And of course, do vote for WebObjects as
the coolest web server,
because it is.
App server, excuse me.
And the roadmap is kind of short,
since there's not that much
time left in this week.
We have WebObjects security.
Then we have optimizing
WebObjects applications.
That's a pretty interesting talk as well.
And I think you will want to voice
feedback in the feedback session.
Who to contact?
My boss, Tony.
She's at WebObjects@apple.com.
So is Bob Frazier,
who is our marketing person.